---
title: Directory Structure
---
# Directory Structure

## Introduction

The default Looped application structure is intended to provide a great starting point for both large and small applications. But you are free to organize your application however you like. Looped imposes almost no restrictions on where any given class is located.

#### Where Is The Models Directory?

When getting started with Looped, many developers are confused by the lack of a `models` directory. However, the lack of such a directory is intentional. We find the word "models" ambiguous since it means many different things to many different people. Some developers refer to an application's "model" as the totality of all of its business logic, while others refer to "models" as classes that interact with a relational database.

For this reason, we choose to place TypeORM models in the `app` directory by default, and allow the developer to place them somewhere else if they choose.

## The Root Directory

#### The App Directory

The `app` directory contains the core code of your application. We'll explore this directory in more detail soon; however, almost all of the classes in your application will be in this directory.


#### The Bootstrap Directory

The `bootstrap` directory contains the `app.ts` and `server.ts` file which bootstraps the app and starts the HTTP server. 


#### The Config Directory

The `config` directory, as the name implies, contains all of your application's configuration files. It's a great idea to read through all of these files and familiarize yourself with all of the options available to you.


#### The Database Directory

The `database` directory contains your database migrations, model factories, and seeds. If you wish, you may also use this directory to hold an SQLite database.


#### The Public Directory

The `public` directory houses your assets such as images, JavaScript, and CSS.


#### The Resources Directory

This directory also houses all of your language files.


#### The Routes Directory

The `routes` directory contains all of the controller definitions for your application. 

> Unlike in Laravel, the routes directory only exposes Routing Controllers. The URLs are defined via decorators for each method in your controller. 

The `channels.ts` file is where you may register all of the event broadcasting channels that your application supports.


#### The Tests Directory

The `tests` directory contains your automated tests. An example [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) test is provided out of the box. Each test file should be suffixed with the name `.test.ts`. You may run your tests using the `yarn jest` command.

#### The node_modules Directory

The `node_modules` directory contains your package dependencies.

## The App Directory

The majority of your application is housed in the `app` directory. 

The `app` directory contains a variety of additional directories such as `Console`, `Http`, and `Providers`. Think of the `Console` and `Http` directories as providing an API into the core of your application. The HTTP protocol and CLI are both mechanisms to interact with your application, but do not actually contain application logic. In other words, they are two ways of issuing commands to your application. The `Console` directory contains all of your Console commands, while the `Http` directory contains your controllers, middleware, and requests.

A variety of other directories will be generated inside the `app` directory as you use the `make` Looped commands to generate classes. So, for example, the `app/Events directory will not exist until you execute the `make:event Looped command to generate an event class.

> Many of the classes in the `app` directory can be generated by Looped via commands. To review the available commands, run the `yarn looped make` command in your terminal.


#### The Broadcasting Directory

The `Broadcasting` directory contains all of the broadcast channel classes for your application. These classes are generated using the `make:channel` command. This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you when you create your first channel. To learn more about channels, check out the documentation on [event broadcasting](/broadcasting).

#### The Console Directory

The `Console` directory contains all of the custom Console commands for your application. These commands may be generated using the `make:command` command. This directory also houses your console kernel, which is where your custom Console commands are registered and your [scheduled tasks](/scheduling) are defined.


#### The Events Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you by the `event:generate` and `make:event` Artisan commands. The `Events` directory houses [event classes](/events). Events may be used to alert other parts of your application that a given action has occurred, providing a great deal of flexibility and decoupling.


#### The Exceptions Directory

The `Exceptions` directory contains your application's exception handler and is also a good place to place any exceptions thrown by your application. If you would like to customize how your exceptions are logged or rendered, you should modify the `Handler` class in this directory.


#### The Http Directory

The `Http` directory contains your controllers, middleware, and form requests. Almost all of the logic to handle requests entering your application will be placed in this directory.


#### The Listeners Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `event:generate` or `make:listener` Looped commands. The `Listeners` directory contains the classes that handle your [events](/events). Event listeners receive an event instance and perform logic in response to the event being fired. For example, a `UserRegistered` event might be handled by a `SendWelcomeEmail` listener.


#### The Mail Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:mail` Looped command. The `Mail` directory contains all of your classes that represent emails sent by your application. Mail objects allow you to encapsulate all of the logic of building an email in a single, simple class that may be sent using the `Mail::send` method.


#### The Notifications Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:notification` Looped command. The `Notifications` directory contains all of the "transactional" notifications that are sent by your application, such as simple notifications about events that happen within your application. Looped's notification features abstracts sending notifications over a variety of drivers such as email, Slack, SMS, or stored in a database.


#### The Policies Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:policy` Looped command. The `Policies` directory contains the authorization policy classes for your application. Policies are used to determine if a user can perform a given action against a resource. For more information, check out the [authorization documentation](/authorization).


#### The Providers Directory

The `Providers` directory contains all of the [service providers](/providers) for your application. Service providers bootstrap your application by binding services in the service container, registering events, or performing any other tasks to prepare your application for incoming requests.

In a fresh Looped application, this directory will already contain several providers. You are free to add your own providers to this directory as needed.

#### The Rules Directory

This directory does not exist by default, but will be created for you if you execute the `make:rule` Looped command. The `Rules` directory contains the custom validation rule objects for your application. Rules are used to encapsulate complicated validation logic in a simple object. For more information, check out the [validation documentation](/validation).
